# Open-for-discourse-casestudy
Documenting 307
Open For Discourse
Spatial intervention in Theory and Practice.

“Not doing much, but a lot.”
-Rirkrit Tiravanija

“this is in an effort to construct a smooth space of thought””
-Deleuze and Guattari

<h2>Intro</h2>

This paper seeks to investigates a series of ongoing spatial experiments I conducted with Devin Halladay in the Graphic Design department at the Maryland Institute College of Art (MICA). With limited tools we tried to open institutional space to discourse, to varying degrees of success. I examine the techniques we came to use and the resulting impact these acts produced. I will describe the successes and failures of the project and examine the impact, even if little that these acts have had upon the institution. After an assessment of the project, I will pivot to look ahead as I attempt to describe ways this project can be expanded both within and beyond the institution. In doing so, I will propose speculative additions and explore the theoretical frameworks that informs this project moving forward. Finally, I will codify a distillation of the critical technical and theoretical elements of the project into tool kit. 

Open for Discourse did not begin as a premeditated project. Its goals were not clear from the beginning, nor was the scope to the project articulated or even examined. On the contrary, it started as an almost instinctual to unused space on a public cork board. One morning Devin posted a picture of Plato on a corkboard in MICA the design lounge (room 307) that was normally used to promote school events. Wanting to see more spontaneous posts such as his, I used pink tape to make a large square on the cork board. Inside, I wrote “open for Discourse.”

That was it: just a pink box on a corkboard. Quickly we added push pins, paper and markers to the scene to aid the discourse. From there, this spontaneous action grew in scope. Devin and I taped off on level of a bookshelf, creating a free design praxis library. We demarcated the television in the room, hooking up a raspberry pi hosting an open are.na board. Devin order glass markers for the window in the room. Finally, we place a pink trimmed whiteboard at a unused corner of the the floor, near the elevator.

Though this evolved into a larger exploration of spatial intervention as a form of community engagement, I must stress the spontaneous nature of its inception. It is important to understand the organic evolution of this project, because at its heart, these experiments are  guided by necessity. They are reactions to a specific climate and are a product of an institutional condition. 

Setting the stage

Fundamentally, MICA is lacking in infrastructure of communication. There are few platforms for interdisciplinary connection and feedback within the school. Unlike most universities, MICA lacks a central meeting point such as a library that encourages and facilitates socialization and the dissemination of thought through conversation. Compounding this, the MICA community remains largely isolated both from other institutions of higher education in the area, and the neighborhoods surrounding the campus. 

As an institution, MICA faces challenges of communication particular to young, talented artists and designers. Given the competitive nature of the school, students tend to put much of their time into projects, at the cost of socialization. This results in high quality work, but also in a disconnected and largely anti-social environment. To a certain degree this can be attributed to personal psychology. Being both introverted and highly motivated, the priorities of the student body are skewed towards the individual creative process and individual success. In a niche.com survey, graduates described the typical MICA student as “Intimidatingly talented,” and “non stop creative.” Indeed, the workaholic attitude is pervasive on campus. Pulling all nighters isn’t reserved for finals. For some it’s a weekly ritual. “That’s Tuesday,” says a student who wishes to remain anonymous. She continues, “my therapist gets excited when I go to parties, since I don’t get a chance much.” Indeed, the heavy workload and high ambition make it easy to self isolate within the studio.

Need section about facebook

These individual attitudes are compounded by institutional divisions. Division by major further fragments an already disperate campus into rarefied areas of specialty. Not only does this create social fractures, but it largely limits intellectual discourse to individual major. With narrowed areas of knowledge collaboration is limited. Rather than enable ambitious cross-disciplinary projects, feed by the diverse yet specialized talents of the student body, people tend to work with people within their own major. There are certainly exception to this, yet there’s a reason the Illustration department is referred to as “the Cult.” It is easy to become intoxicated with the medium of choice and to be blind to all others. “I don’t get to look at the work of friends outside of my department,” is a sentiment I’ve heard echoed. Indeed, given how demanding it is to remain competent in one area of study, its not surprising that interdisciplinary collaboration is abandoned.  

Both culturally and administratively, there’s an absence of interdisciplinary and social initiative. A major factor contributing to this is the architecture of the campus. Unlike most universities, MICA does not have a building that serves as a focal point for student interactions. For many schools this building is the library. It serves as a meeting place and an academic hub, drawing students from all majors concentrations. Though unregulated, this space enables intellectual cross pollination and the development of social interaction within the space of academics. Though MICA has a library in central location, it is located in the basement of Bunting. The lack of light and lack of space make it an uninviting destination. On sunny days this role is filled by Cohen Plaza, where students congregate to eat, relax and socialize. Yet it lacks the intellectual precedent of the library and can only be used during certain times of the year.

The climate that results from these factors is not only damaging to student life, and academic rigor, it is also potentially harmful to students. With a campus culture defined by individual pursuit, fragmented by specialization and lacking an architecture of exchange, it is challenging to develop a unified student voice, or to develop responses to pressing situations. Not only does this make it more difficult for students organize around political issues, it makes it more difficult for the student body to express its needs to the administration. And this disunity is exactly what enables minority voices to be silenced. Though clubs and student government advocate, to limited success, they lack power without the support of the student body. The authority of these groups is directly proportional to the involvement of student body. Student unions backed by an organized, articulate and empowered student body are much harder to ignore. So without the infrastructure to secure discourse and engagement from the student body, these organization will remain disempowered.  

Without this support, students who witness injustice, become frustrated or disenfranchised. For some this may mean resignation and inaction. For others it may mean these sentiments are channeled through the most immediate pathway. In 2017 there was an incident at the MICA film center where a student defaced a portrait of a white director. This portrait had been donated to the center by a donor and the situation spiraled out of hand. Rather than seek to understand the motives behind this act, the administration sought to punish the student responsible and immediately replaced the portrait. This situation could have likely been better resolved with stronger infrastructure in place for engagement. Not only would the student body have had a the ability to discuss these event, perhaps a unified statement could have been drafted to the administration articulating the position of this group. Though this is only speculation, having systems of recourse and a robust system of discourse within the school may have preempted the act of protest. With a form for discussion and culture of participation, perhaps the conditions that motivated this action could have been dismantled from the start. 

In parallel, MICA has little cross campus interaction. Despite the fact the university of Baltimore is only a few thousand feet away from the MICA campus, there have been no events co-hosted by the two schools in the past 12 months. Furthermore, there is limited student interaction with Johns Hopkins University, despite the fact the vast potential for collaborations between the fields of medicine, technology, art and design. [more?]

Finally, MICA remains largely isolated within the surrounding neighborhoods. Located within the narrow ribbon of economic privilege running through the center of the city, the school is an economic threat to the neighborhoods east and west and north. Despite the designation of Station North as an Arts and Culture District, MICA remains a monolithic institution, with connections to the Charles theater, but lacking connections in the community, especially along North Ave. [more] Fundamentally, MICA is lacking in public space for interactions between students and the community can happen. This is a premeditated architectural strategy based on fear, and economic displacement. With gates, facades, and IDs, almost every semi public area within MICA is closed to the surrounding community. This defensive design stops discourse before it can begin. Fortifying the campus due to muggins ignores the larger issues that underlie the violent acts: economic displacement, inequality and racism. To achieve a higher level of campus safety there must be opportunity for students to engage with the residents of the surrounding neighborhoods. 

Open For Discourse

It is out of this environment that Open For Discourse emerged. As a student I had an implicit understanding of the communication issues MICA faced. And as someone with a critical practice my understanding of the school was shaped by this lens. Though not yet articulated, exploring the infrastructure of communication within the school was on my mind.  So when an opportunity to engage with these issues presented itself I seized it.

This opportunity came when Devin Halladay posted a picture of Plato on a bulletin board in room 307. Room 307, the graphic design lounge is located on the 3rd floor of Brown. Open to all Students, though mainly used by those in the Graphic Design Department, the space is used as a work space. With free printing, the area gets regular traffic. With floor to ceiling windows on two walls, the room is well lite and inviting. Though there are couches in one corner and a fridge and microwave in another, the space is largely unused as space for discourse. Devin’s choice to insert commentary in the room, though not unique was a striking departure. Since the only other examples of student discourse in the space were of my own creation, I decide to create a visual system to encourage input from the 307 community. I hoped that by providing space for student curation, I’d be better able to see what was on the minds of people around me. To put it simply, I was curious. I wanted insight into people’s inspiration, concerns and process. 

Seizing materials most immediately available, I removed school sanctioned bulletins from a section of the board and stretched a box of pink tape around the vacated area, measuring approximately five feet by three feet. Within this pink box, I placed a piece of paper with the words “Open for Discourse” printed upon it in pink. Devin created a sign asking people to contribute to the discourse. We provide a bin of thumb tacks and a stack of paper, inviting contribution. 

This was the initial iteration of the project. It was completed out of spontaneity, with basic materials, motivated by curiosity. Yet from this starting point, we discovered an important set of tools. By simple creating a pink outline, it became clear that we could designate space as open– free from the behaviour institutional spaces dictated.

Seeing potential, Devin and I Decided to extend this system. The next day, we wheeled in a two sided whiteboard. Placing pink tape around the borders of the surface, we scrawled questions on the surface hoping to elicit answers. Next, we moved a bookshelf from a unused corner to a more central position by the entrance. Clearing one shelf of material, we stretched pink tape, framing the shelf in order to demarcate the space as public. This set the stage for what would become the design praxis library. Finally during the latter part of that week, we connected a Raspberry Pi to a TV installed in 307, displaying an open are.na channel. Are.na, a media hosting site similar to pinterest allows users to post images, pdfs, text and videos. Providing  a url and instructions on how to post, Devin and I encourage members of the 307 community to contribute content, thoughts, inspiration and concerns to this online space, extending the scope of the project beyond the walls of 307. 

Over the next few days, Devin and I began to populate the bookshelf with books from home. Hoping to encourage productive, critical and informed discourse, we included a diverse range of readings. Titles such as Design for the Real World, Technically Wrong, Cybernetics, Ecodefense, The Mathematical Theory of Communication and Designing for Social Change form the kernel of the design praxis library. 

With these spatial interventions in place, Devin and I began observing the impact, looking for comments, contributions, interventions and changes in behaviour. At first, there was little interaction with the Open spaces. However comments began to emerge. At first they were largely suspicious, or irreverent. One comment asked “why does everything have to be political?” Another asked, “Does Pineapple go on pizza?” 

Without input from the community, Devin and I began filling the space. Hoping to spark conversation, I posted poetry by Leslie Marmon Silko. Devin shared a copy of the Cannibalist Manifesto. There was no measurable impact. We began asking questions on the whiteboard such as “Who is your favorite designer?” and “is your practice political?” These were met with moderate success with a few people answering. Yet without substantial input, we continued to ask and post.

Post outside of door, asking basic questions to try to build engagement.

At this point, Devin and I received two valuable pieces of criticism. First, a student wrote a note questioning why the first images posted were of Plato and Diogenes: 

“Kind of shocked that we know idolizing only Western, white male art is bad, but that’s all that’s here. Why did it start with this? Why not w/ subversive discourse (read: productive)? Read activists/ scholars on topics other than design! They are designing justice, we have to listen.”

The anonymous poster then adhered images of Angela Davis and Audre Lorde to the bulletin board. They also printed off a famous At the same time, the department Chairperson, Brockett Horne sent Devin and I an email questioning our actions within the space. She writes 

“since this is the only open studio we have, I need to reserve that it is still an attractive place for students to work. Can you keep that in mind? Is a place of messaging / discourse also a work space? At least one student is concerned about this.”


Reflecting on these critiques, Devin and I began exploring ways to modify the spatial interventions. We realized that it was necessary for us to minimize our presence within the space. If not, we ran the risk of colonizing, rather than liberating the space. Furthermore, it became clear that we needed to simplify the interventions. By adding a whiteboard to the space, we had unintentionally created an occupation. Rather than create an institutional vacuum which students could fill, we had merely displaced one institution with another. Noticing the potential of the windows in 307 to fill the role of message board in an unobtrusive way, Devin ordered glass markers. Having resolved to address these problem, I write to Horne stating:

“Our goals for this project are both temporary and permanent. We hope for discourse to be a lasting feature of this department. By creating a space for conversation and the public sharing of inspiration, process and theory we hope to encourage and develop critical lenses built on the adjacent thought processes of those around us.

However, I understand the concerns you raise. At the moment, our presence dominates 307. This is contrary to our goals. Rather than bombard members of the community with messaging, we want students to commandeer this space, inserting their own commentary into public areas throughout the department and school. 

To address these concerns, Devin and I have decided to remove the whiteboard. It clutters the space and interjects an unnecessary barrier. More importantly, we realize that in order to pursue the goals as stated above, we must work to better respect the other users of 307. Much of our writing in the room is process work. It happens in tandem with and is a part of the design process. As such, an open studio seems the most appropriate space for this kind of infrastructure. However, this writing should not be preserved. We agree that all but the most essential questions should be erased at the end of the day. Hopefully with these changes we will both gain participation and reopen 307 to the community.”

Devin and I began removing content we posted, freeing up space for others. We removed the wheeled whiteboard and placed it in an underutilized corner near the third floor elevator, hoping to activate the space.  Back in 307, we built containers for the glass markers, sticking one to the a window inside the room and one to a glass wall just outside the entrance to 307. With these iterations in place, Open for Discourse began to function more effectively, leading to some meaningful results results. 

To begin with, questions begin being posted in the are.na channel directly relating to issues of institutional discourse and communication within the school. Nick Sheeran writes, “Why aren’t studios at MICA more intertwined? Why wouldn’t a publication design studio team with creative writing, illustration, photo, type design, everything?” In response, Mazzy Bell writes:

“This has been brought up in conjoined grad and undergrad SVA meetings for the past year and a half (and probably more). It mostly comes down to a) the majority of mica does not care about the merging of things b) there are other issues that are seemingly more important or, at the very least, issues that need to be dealt with more quickly than the lacking of departmental collaboration.”

Discourse is starting to happen. What’s more it’s happening in public. Though its difficult to measure the direct impact of this, high visibility of these ideas in a public setting could potentially lead to greater interest in interdisciplinary activities and ultimately institutional change. 

This is also a significant victory in terms of engagement. 

Outside the door to 307 where I had placed a marker a student wrote “think MICA should have a bike share?” Unlike previous attempts of generating engagement outside of the room, this question immediately elicited responses, ranging from positive to constructively skeptical. Students began voting, making tally marks to show approval. Others wrote “Yes I’d use it!” or drew hearts. Some people provided feedback. “Yes, but you’d need research” said one person, “MICA needs to commit,” wrote another. From here the conversation became more technical. “We did have one,” wrote one person, “It lasted about a year–what happened?” This started a discussion. “Not well run,” “Not well funded” “under-used,” people ventured. At the same time people began discussing the challenges facing bikers in baltimore. Topics ranging from bike lanes to bike theft were discussed. “Awareness more than bike lanes is the important thing,” one person wrote.

Not only did this question elicit a large response, it did so quickly. In only two days, the entire glass surface was filled with comments. People were eager to express their views and to engage in the constructive critique of a project proposal. Not only did the infrastructure of the opened space create the opportunity for an important conversation, it did so in a public way, drawing visibility to the issue. This question ensured that the idea of an on campus bike share had a visible presence within the department. More so the amount of feedback demonstrated the amount of community support surrounding the issue in a meaningful way. While many may have privately been partial to such a proposal, the public display made it clear that others share this. 

Additionally, the public setting enabled the rapid crowdsourcing of ideas. Potential problems were quickly identified and equally as quickly, solutions were floated. Comments were made to fit the discourse into a larger discussion surrounding bike safety and way of connecting the two issues were proposed. This set of response could proved to be a useful starting point for research if the poster wanted to investigate the viability of reviving an on campus bike campus. Though it’s not clear if this dialogue contributed to better organization around this issue, it did clearly demonstrate the potential of the open for discourse infrastructure to illicit engagement from the community. 


While the bike share conversation did not generate a measurable next step, another comment posted managed to do this. The whiteboard that Devin and I placed near the elevator was largely left alone. We posted one question on the surface and left the rest to chance. One day a comment appeared on the surface: “GD grad show is conceptual blackface.” This comment caused immediate discussion, both on the board and off of it. “Called out!!” one person wrote. “LMS if you’re tired of GD teachers trying to be diverse bu then getting uncomfortable,” wrote another and then followed up writing “MICA teachers AKA WonderBread™ Factory.” They then drew a picture of a “mayo egg sandwich.” Word of this traveled quickly. People began asking each other if they had seen this posting.

Then the original comment was erased. Another person asked why it was erased. Then the whiteboard was removed by administration. However the conversation did not end there. Rather than shut down the conversation, Brocket Horn decided to open the conversation to the junior designers and crafting an assignment that asked students to respond to issues of cultural appropriation. 

This episode demonstrate the potential power of discursive spaces. Not only did the infrastructure of open for discourse provide a space for a dissenting opinion, the location of the discourse made it visible to the administration and resulted in a meaningful action. Clearly there were opinions about the grad show that were lacking an outlet of expression. Clearly  these opinions were supported, given positive reactions on the whiteboard. However, without a means of expressing these thoughts, these ideas may have never transferred beyond friend circles. Yet the visibility made administrative action rapid and pointed. By posting this comment, the poster not only made an important comment about the grad show, they jump started a conversation about cultural sensitivity within design across the entire junior class. Clearly the initiative was taken by the department, yet this demonstrates the importance of having visible spaces for students to express their opinions. Even a single comment can shed light upon perspectives that are often given little voice or value. Hopefully this is one instance of many where there is opportunity for large scale discussion surrounding community issues within the design department. 

Observing the effect of the spatial interventions, I decided to explore responses beyond static infrastructure. Hoping to seed community engagement, I decide to host an event called work share, where people could bring ideas and projects to workshop and troubleshoot. The overarching idea was to create an opportunity for the kind of discourse that was happening in an anonymous fashion on the boards to find form in a community event. Hoping to engage people around an issue that was topical within the community, I put the word out, emphasising that this space could be a place to get help with coding. Since this is an area of design many have difficulty with the idea seemed like a great way to engage with people on a topic that was underrepresented. Furthermore, I hoped by providing resources, I could not only grow the engagement, I could provide a vital service to the community. With these goals, I ordered pizza and prepared for a discussion.

As it happened, the social engagement club was meeting across the hall. After talking with Maddy Wolfe, we decided to combine the night’s meetings. We began by workshopping a piece. This turned into a larger discussion about interdisciplinary connections within the school. The groups reflected upon the value of having a diversity of backgrounds weighing in on a project and how this could give valuable insights to artists and designers. From there we began exploring ways that interdisciplinary spaces could be formed across the MICA campus. This discussion helped to educate me on steps that were already being taken in this direction and reaffirmed that this was an issue supported by many people across the campus. Furthermore, the intersections of the helped to develop new connection, linking people across departments who don’t regularly interact. Finally, this meeting formed the basis of an ongoing dialogue between Wolfe and myself as we seek to combine our interests in creating deinstitutionalized bubbles for active student participation.

Critical Lenses 

Reflecting on both the successes and failures of the interventions in and around 307 I will explore a few critical lenses both to understand the results and to inspire further iteration as the project progresses. My goal is to provide a robust survey of the thought surrounding engagement, deinstitutionalization and community development. 

Perhaps it is best to start by investigating the processes of opening institutional space to discourse. By nature, the institutional space at MICA is regulated and codified. Even supposedly free spaces, such as bulletin boards are regulated, sanctioned fliers receiving and “approved” marking. This is the kind of space Deleuze and Guattari refer to this as Striated. 

“State space is "striated," or gridded. Movement in it is confined as by gravity to a horizontal plane, and limited by the order of that plane to preset paths between fixed and identifiable points. Nomad space is "smooth," or open-ended. One can rise up at any point and move
to any other. Its mode of distribution is the nomos: arraying oneself in an open space (hold the street), as opposed to the logos of entrenching oneself in a closed space (hold the fort).”

The goal then is develop enclaves of smooth space within the striated confines of the institution. The idea is to vacate space, both of institutionally sanctioned material and of personal prejudices. It is a kind of anti occupation–a way to vacate a space of hegemonic control. In doing so the act of open discourse destraits a space and reinscribes it with the experiences of the audience.

This idea also lends itself to a post colonial interpretation. One could easily extending the destriatation of these spaces to a decolonization of them, encouraging the visibility and expression of voices underrepresented in traditional forms of dialogue. This places open for discourse in an interesting position. It must remain an independent platform within the school while maintaining support from the institution. It  must be a tolerated exteriority. Yet with such conceptual ideals and little existing reference for this within the audience experience open for discourse has to help the audience transition this usage. 

At the same time, many of aspects of this project can be seen as parallel to the explorations of relational aesthetics. In an interview, Rirkrit Tiravanija describes the motivations behind his “cooking situations.” Interested in exploring institutional power dynamics, Tiravanija set up a kitchen in an administrative office of, serving food in a gallery space. It was “a (kind of) museological critique – about cultural fragmentation (the removal or displacement of cultural artefacts from one (original) context to another,” he says. In a similar way, Open for discourse, hopes to create micro interventions, displacing the institutional language with a smooth student space. Indeed Open for discourse seeks to carve spaces outside the institution from within, building micro climates expression and discourse. 

“It is important to the same extent that an audience should be involved in the work. I am not interested in authorship; I am interested in the possibilities that can be arrived at when people put their ideas together,” says Tiravanija. Indeed, open for discourse is interested in being a window rather than a canvas. What is exciting about the project is the ability for every student to contribute authorship. Engagement is the goal and by doing so developing systems of relational power within the student body. 

Utilizing Bilda’s Creative engagement model, to examine open for discourse, I’ll investigate how the interventions advocate for engagement. To start with, it is important to recognize the expectation the audience have upon entry. 307 is a work space. Most people have no expectation that this could be a place to voice opinions, share ideas, talk about politically charged ideas, organize, or collaborate. Indeed as discussed before, the fact MICA is lacking in such spaces mean people are acclimated away from this possibility. Given these condition, the audience begins interactions with open for discourse in the unintended mode. With no knowledge of the interventions nor expectations of the space to accommodate such functions, the audience enters blinded to the infrastructure. 

As such, it’s imperative that upon entry, one is able to enter into an adaptation phase. Though familiar with tools in use, ie stickers, markers, paper, in the context of deinstitutionalized space their functions are unclear. In order to adapt, the audience must become acquainted with the purpose of the interventions and why it is valuable for them to contribute. “story that drives the experience - along with the spatial and temporal facets,” write Bilba. Indeed, narrative is certainly lacking form the open for discourse experience. As designers, the audience has experience with externalizing ideas. The only thing preventing interaction is an inability to adapt to the deinstitutionalized space. Perhaps this could be corrected simply by posting information detailing the challenges facing MICA, the dangers of low levels of communication and the steps people can take to combat that through open for discourse. With modifications to make the intentions of the space more clear, people should be able to enter the Intended mode, breaking through the interaction threshold so as to contribute to the discourse. 

Futures

Having reviewed the context and given some critical lenses to asses the project through I will propose additional iterations to open for discourse. These take multiple pathways. On the one hand I hope to iterate the project to make it more successful as a stand alone experiment. On the other hand, I hope to build connections and share the knowledge gained from this study in order to develop more robust infrastructure of communication across MICA and between institutions. These impulses work in tandem. As I refine the features of Open for Discourse I will be reaching out and building community connection and allies.   

To begin with, hope to enable a greater adaptive response to Open for Discourse by developing narratives surrounding the project. To do this, I will develop a plaque or booklet describing the challenges facing MICA the ways this projects hopes to address them. Helping to develop the narrative and prompt adaptation I will develop iconographic prompts promoting engagement. These icons will indicate the kind of expression the various interventions enable. Not only that, I will develop an iconographic toolkit which will help facilitate organization and follow through. Creating stickers that can server to highlight an idea, connect people who may be interested in similar projects, ask for more info, or seek provide contact information for follow-ups, I hope to enable more efficient engagement, beyond the whiteboard, screen and bulletin board.   Furthermore, I would like to develop community narratives by hosting events withins spaces that have been opened to discourse. This means continuing events such as Work Share. However, I would like to open these events–make them more smooth. By moving away from work oriented themes, it may be easier to create tears in the institutional striation. To promote this association and aid in the audience’s adaptation I would like to explore ways to incorporate music and food into the interventions. 

In parallel to this, I hope to integrate the online discourse that is already happening into Open for discourse locations. To do this, Devin and I creating an app to host content and serve as an organizational tool. Rather than a message board, or a forum, the app will enable limited responses in accordance with the iconographic tool kit I’m developing to enable specific kinds of follow through when important ideas are posted. Right now we are in the stage of prototyping and sketching, though we hope to soon have a fully realized mockup.

To broaden the scope of the Open for Discourse, I plan to partner with Maddie Wolf and [person]. Maddie is planning to open public spaces throughout the school in order to enable organization. I would like to share the insights I have developed here in order to aid this mission. I hope too that I can lend visual and narrative tools to help enable audience adaptation. Setting up interventions at key locations, the goals is to provide a stop gap solution for the lack of a centralized discursive location. Furthermore, these spaces directly seek to enable student organization, providing a more robust school wide system of exchange.

Similarly I hope make connections with the change maker [get Kristian updates] office. Though open for Discourse must remain outside the striated space of the institution, this office has potential to be an ally. This may help provide insight in how to be a tolerated externality. 

Finally,  I hope to explore ways to allow the findings of Open for Discourse to be exchanged beyond MICA. One way to do this would be set up a discursive space within the University of Baltimore. Perhaps just the act of engaging with people from the campus would be enough to spark something meaningful. Furthermore, I hope to become involved with the Baltimore Collegiate Alliance (BCA) and Maddie’s organizational efforts. By providing guidelines and toolkits, perhaps other institutions can begin to develop spaces of open discourse. 

Developing and expanding this infrastructure of discourse is now more imperative than ever. Recently the Department of Homeland security made an unannounced visit to MICA. Though this act was purely an administrative exercise, it is not unthinkable that in the future government agents could enter campus with the intent immediate harm. Having space of discourse, organization and would be crucial in mounting a rapid, unified student response. Though this may seem extreme, further developing spaces of destriation is a critical step towards building the kind of engaged and empowered audience that could actively defend and advocate for their peers. 
